---
title: You Do Not Know How NFTs Works And Here Is Why It Is Stupid
description: An explanation of how NFTs actually works and why it is stupid.
tags:
  - NFTs
  - Cryptography
slug: nfts-works-stupid
---

Non Fungible Tokens or NFTs in recent months have been a very controversial
technology not just in the tech world but also in the art world. I know I am
going to get flamed by "TechBros" on how "web3" will change the world and how
people will actually own "Digital Property", you guys do not know how it works
or do not care because it is all about the money. On the side of people who
agrees that NFTs are bad, well you guys also do not know how NFTs work, so this
is how NFT works.

## How NFT works

Before we start, we need define what is a NFT.

NFT
: A unique and non-interchangeable unit of data stored on a blockchain , a form
  of digital ledger. - [Wikipedia][1] | [CC BY-SA 3.0 Unported][2]

Using Wikipedia is kind of unfair isn't it (as it is told not to be used as a
source) but it does serve as a baseline. It means it is a single digital file
that represents a digital asset which shows ownership as a transaction record
that cannot be copied. Basically you take all the data  that represent the
digital asset you want to mint (the process of creating NFTs) and output it into
data that only represent the bits/bytes of that digital asset you minted. Here
is a visual example of this process:

![process.svg]({% asset_path process.svg %} "The process of minting a NFT")

Lets do this in

This is why NFTs is stupid, you are owning the representation of the data that
represent the digital asset, not the actual digital asset. Which leads to the
next thing.

### How "Digital Copying" Works

You are not getting a copy of the original digital asset when you mint an NFT,
you are just getting the representation of that digital asset which is an
imperfect copy of that digital asset. Which is copied when uploaded to the
internet and blockchain which is compressed to show the asset. So why are you
guys crying about someone screenshot your NFT, that is a imperfect copy and does
not affect the real digital asset because you only own a token that only
represent the 1s and 0s of the asset.

### Copyright

Because of the reasons above, you do not own the copyright of the digital asset,
and if you scroll down to the Copyright section in the wikipedia entry, you
cannot prove that you own it in the copyright world. NFT is not a legal document
or legal license that states you own the rights to that asset. It is just a file
on a computer, nothing else.

## How NFTs Ruined Cryptocurrency

Lets admit it, the people who thinks NFTs are the people who now thinks that
cryptocurrency is bad. Do not say that we did not know it is bad because back
when bitcoin started back in 2008, we laugh at it. Then we started to realize
the potential of cryptocurrency, and next it crash because of nfts.

Cryptocurrencies have real use case like anonymous donations which protects the
donator which becomes a double edge sword. Yes, it can be used for criminal acts
but it is about how the technology used, not the existent of the technology. But
that is an other day.

That is ruined when crypto gets an bad reputation from something that really
does not have anything to back it up.

## The Other "Crypto"

## Conclusion

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible_token
[2]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
